>> Erik Reinert: We've got one
more file that we need to do, and
this is our Bastion TF file.
So in this file we're actually
doing some pretty cool stuff.
And again, I'm just really trying
to show you guys how flexible,
how customized, and
how much you can automate with Terraform.
So at the very bottom,
we'll start with the very bottom,
actually, this is our module
to create an EC2 instance.
You're going to notice that I use modules
a lot of I use them a lot because I just
don't want to have to find and look up.
Because think about it like this.
If you use a module, you also don't have
to look up Terraform resources because
they're all in the module.
Modules save time,
even from a development standpoint,
because all I have to worry about are the
options that I want to provide to it.
I don't have to think about, okay,
what's the AMI Data lookup file or
Data Resource, and then what's
the EC2 create instance resource?
How do I glue those two together?
Like, the module just takes
care of all of that for you, so
I do recommend using modules and
Terraform as much as you can.
You'll move very, very fast.
And like I said, even the 200,
300 resources we'll be creating,
we're only really probably
creating like 50 things.
And then everything else is in
the module and underneath it.
So in this case, I'm using
a module called EC2 instance, and
it allows me to create an EC2 instance,
right?
So I'm telling it that
the module's name is Bastion.
I'm telling it that I want
to associate an IP address.
Why?
Because this is a Bastion node.
I want to be able to connect
to that node publicly.
I'm giving it a very,
very small instance size, right?
Because this is just a jump box.
I don't need tons of resources here.
I just want to be able
to connect to it and
then connect to other things from it,
right?
However, one thing that's really
interesting is the AWS key pair or
the key name on that next line.
So I don't want to manage SSH keys.
That sucks.
That is annoying.
This environment has this SSH key.
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
so forth and so on, right?
Like, I would much rather make it so
that it just generates me SSH keys and
then maybe like stores them in ssm and
then like as a developer,
I can just go grab that key at SSM and
then connect to it.
That's a better experience for me.
And so, that's what we're doing above,
creating the instance with Terraform.
Like I said, you can use tons of
providers and tons of modules.
One of the things I'm
doing is at the very top,
I'm telling Terraform to literally
just generate me a TLS private key.
That's it.
So you can even have Terraform generate
you values, passwords, secrets, whatever,
so that you can then use those values
in specific things you're trying to do.
So in this case I'm using
a TLS private key, RSA 4096.
Then out of this resource will come
a private key and a public key.
Now that I have a private key and
a public key, I can attach
those to my bastion instance and then also
have the private key to connect to it.
What happens is then I tell Amazon,
hey, I want you to take this public key
that I just created and
created AWS key pair out of that.
And then when I create
my bastion instance,
I want you to use that key name
as the key for the instance.
So now I don't have to worry
about managing keys at all.
Whenever I create an environment,
an SSM parameter gets created with
the private and public keys inside of it.
So now developers can know that if they
need to access the SSA or the bastion key,
I don't even have to give it to them,
I just give them permission
to view the key in ssm.
There you go.
Now you go get it yourself.
That's the motto DevOps should
have you go get it yourself.
Because that's truly DevOps
in my mind is self serve.
Let them be able to empower
themselves to do it.
In this case, we wrote automation in a way
where we're solving the future problem
of people trying to connect to the bastion
node or get access to it, right?
I'm basically just saying, you know what,
put this in Amazon, making sure that
people can access it, and then they'll be
able to connect to it when they need to.
We enable monitoring as well,
we put it in one of the public
subnets because it's a public
IP address or a public service.
And then the last thing we do here is
we provide the VPC Security Group IDs.
Now what you're going to notice is
that I give this two security groups,
I give it a bastion security group and
I give it a private security group.
Why do I give it both?
Based off of what I've told you
earlier and how security groups work,
why did I give it bastion and
why did I give it public?
Can anyone guess?
>> Speaker 2: It has to
connect to both of them.
>> Erik Reinert: Exactly, yeah.
So the bastion security group
handles the ingress filtering only,
meaning which public IP
addresses can connect to it.
But if I just put
the bastion one on there,
I would not be allowed to connect
to anything in the private subnet.
The reason for that is because we
are using access through the composition
of security groups, meaning that if
I put the private security group,
which allows anything with the private
security group access to it,
then I have just given Bastion,
the bastion node,
access to the entire private subnet.
The way that we're composing these
security groups, the only real takeaway I
want you to have is we don't have to write
additional terraform that says, okay,
this bastion node, poke a hole into the
security group and now you have access.
It's literally just if it has the security
group, that's all you need, right?
So this is why we reuse those module
security groups, because we just attach
them to the resources and
now those resources have access.
So if we combine the ability to
have public IP addresses connect to
this node with the ability for
it to be on the private security group,
then we've now bridged
where they can come in.
We can manage those rules separately, but
because it's on the private subnet group
than anything else on that private subnet
group the bastion node
will have access to.
Now what's also nice about this is if
it's on the private security group, and
then we allow the private security
group to access something,
everything on that security
group now just got access to it.
So this is also like future-proof in the
sense that if I tell the private security
group, okay, now I want you
to access the intra subnets,
then the bastion service also has access
to the interest subnets now, right?
Because we have this composability.
So this is how I like to
shape traffic on Amazon.
When I started out, I thought of
it way more literally of like,
here's IPs, here's IPs gotta poke holes.
Da, da, da.
But now that I use it more,
more and more I do this,
which is just like security
group to security group.
If you're in this security group,
you get access to everything,
create more security groups
if you want more granularity.
And so, yeah, yeah,
>> Speaker 3: so maybe just taking a step
back on the, I guess where this is
coming from is online, whatever that is.
Six towards the bottom.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah,
sorry, this one right here?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
So like you're grabbing
the first subnet there.
This bastion is Going to be set up
on a per environment basis, right?
>> Erik Reinert: Yep.
>> Speaker 3: One for each environment.
>> Speaker 3: So then is our address
space also per environment or
do we have one address space for
all the environments?
>> Erik Reinert: I see, so you're saying,
like, is there a conflict there?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
Or like I'm just trying to understand,
I guess, better how like,
is did l have all the dev resources
all gonna be in the same.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah, all the dev
resources would be in the same vpc,
the same subnets and all that stuff?
>> Speaker 3: Well, like, and I guess,
would they be on the same security
group as the prod stuff too, then?
>> Erik Reinert: No.
>> Speaker 3: So then there is like per
environment, there is
different address space.
>> Erik Reinert: So yes and no,
this is where it gets like,
kind of confusing.
>> Speaker 3: If we don't
have to go down that route.
>> Erik Reinert: No, it's totally fine,
it's a great question.
You found a potential problem for
us in the future if we didn't plan for
it correctly.
So again, the environment contains
everything that an environment needs,
which is including a network, right?
Database, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, right?
So that must mean that when I create a new
environment, I get a new network, right?
Well, those two networks do not
communicate with each other at all.
From an Amazon perspective,
they are completely separate VPCs, or
Virtual Private clouds.
Meaning that if I wanted to
connect to prod from dev,
I literally could not do that.
There's no connectivity
whatsoever in the Amazon world,
VPCs are the isolators there, right?
However, because they are so
isolated and so virtualized,
it does mean that I could create
a staging network with 10.0.0.16.
But I could also create a prod
network with 10.0.0 dot 16.
Now, if I do that, and
then in the future I go, well, no,
I actually want those two networks
to communicate with each other.
It won't work because I just provisioned
two networks with the exact same address
spaces and eventually there will be a
collision and they will not work together.
So what would be an optimization to this?
We're not doing that because we have
the bastion node per environment.
So all we have to do is hop
on another bastion node and
now we're in that environment and we don't
want prod and staging to communicate.
So that isolation is fine as well.
But if in the future that was a problem.
>> Speaker 3: Like maybe what
a good example would be like,
we want to refresh stage with prod data.
>> Erik Reinert: Sure,
that's a great example.
That's literally what I do at my job.
Yeah.
And in that case,
if you wanted to do that,
what you would do is you would go even
further with the CIDR configuration.
So what you would do is you would say,
you do something like this,
you'd say staging
is 10, 00016 but then prod is.
Let's see if it'll autocomplete it for me.
10.0 like 100.0.0/16.
Now, as long as the last address
in 10.0.0.16 does not collide or
overlap with the first
address in the PROD subnet or
in the PROD network, then you can
put those two networks together.
And then, you could communicate from
staging to prod if you wanted to.
But if you do plan to do that, where you
want to have like a VPC over here and
a VPC over there, you do have to take
into consideration that overlap and
making sure that that doesn't happen.
Otherwise Amazon, it'll just break stuff.
That's a great question.
And again when we talk about scale, that's
if you were going to glue two networks
together, which is common,
you would hit the.
Yeah, you'd.
Absolutely.
Let's put it this way, if I didn't tell
you that, you'd be mad at me because it
would be very diffic because
at that point you're screwed.
At that point you have to create a new
network with the non conflicting space,
move everything to that new network and
then glue those two networks together.
So it's actually very important
that you're cognizant of that.
Otherwise yeah, it's going to be
a massive foothold in the future for you.